(Lofall, Quilcene and Seabeck quadrangles)

Cell JE-13 originates from a zone of drift divergence located 3.5 km
north of Hazel Point (Seabeck quadrangle) and has generally
northeastward net shore-drift along the eastern shore of the Toandos
Peninsula for approximately 17 km to the northern end of the spit that
originates near South Point (Lofall quadrangle).  Northward net
shore-drift in this cell matches northward and northeastward net
shore-drift in cell KS 2-1 on the Kitsap County shore of this portion
of the Hood Canal (Taggart, 1984).  Drift sediment is initially derived
from two stream deltas near the cell origin and then from exposed
bluffs cut into sandy glacial drift and streams that are found
intermittently along the cell.

Northward and northeastward net shore-drift to Thorndyke Bay (Lofall
quadrangle) is indicated by northward offset of two small deltas
located 3.3 and 1.5 km south of Brown Point (Quilcene quadrangle),
nearshore bars oriented northeast-southwest that are moving northward
in the southern portion of the cell, general northward high-tide beach
width increase, northward stream mouth offset located 0.6 km south of
Brown Point, progradation of two looped bars (that bear some similarity
to cuspate spits in plan view, but are much blunter) from uplands that
project seaward slightly, straddling the northern Naval Reservation
boundary (Lofall quadrangle), northwestward creek mouth offset on the
northern sides of both of these features, northward drift of pieces of
peat from landslide deposits on the beach (originating from the bluff)
in the northern portion of the cell, and northeastward spit growth at
the Thorndyke Creek outlet and associated northeastward creek mouth
offset (seaward of a spit that has prograded in the opposite direction
from intermittent southwestward shore drift).  Thorndyke Bay, which is
very shallow, and the spits fronting the marsh in the bay are a sink for
a portion of northeastward-moving net shore-drift sediment in this cell.

East of the Thorndyke Creek outlet sand-rich glacial drift deposits are
exposed in south-facing bluffs (Lofall quadrangle).  These bluffs are
subjected to southerly waves that have developed over a 17 km fetch and
are a major source of drift sediment for the northern portion of this
cell.  Generally northeastward net shore-drift here is indicated by
northeastward bluff vegetation and beach width increase, numerous
nearshore bars oriented east-west that are moving northeastward between
Thorndyke Bay and South Point, northeastward stream mouth offset at
locations 1.7 and 0.7 km southwest of South Point, accretion of
sediment on the southwest side of the rip-rap revetment at South Point,
and northward progradation a 1.0-km-long spit from South Point.  Cell
JE-13 terminates at the northern, recurved end of this spit, seaward of
the Bridgehaven Marina.  Continued northward net shore-drift in this
cell is interrupted by a rip-rap jetty located approximately 40 m north
of the spit.
