(Port Ludlow and Hansville quadrangles

This cell originates at Tala Point and has generally southeastward net
shore-drift for 7.8 km, ending at Point Hannon, a cuspate spit at
northeastern Hood Head.  The sediment source in this cell are eroding
bluffs composed of sandy glacial drift that are found in the northern
and central parts of the cell (Port Ludlow quadrangle).  Beach
characteristics and the sediment composition vary within this cell as
several points alter the energy level that the beach is exposed to.
Substantial deposits of sand on a predominantly gravel beach occur
southeast of Tala Point, at the point approximately 1 km south of Tala
Point, and at the settlement north of White Rock.  Southeastward then
eastward net shore-drift is indicated by the presence of east-west
trending nearshore bars within the first 4.0 km of the cell, sediment
accumulations on the north side of a rip-rap revetment, a boat ramp,
and rock outcrops (all of which are located in the kilometer north of,
or in front of, the settlement north of White Rock), eastward
progradation of a 1.0-km-long, slightly-curved, tombolo to Hood Head
(Hansville quadrangle), and by eastward progradation of Point Hannon,
a narrow cuspate spit.

Trends in beach width and sediment size alongshore that often indicate
the direction of net shore-drift do not occur within this cell because
of variations in sediment availability and grain size; sandy drift
material is abundant in the bluffs close to Tala Point and relatively
scarce in the downdrift end of the cell, where the bluffs are composed
of silt and clay-rich glacial till, with little sand or gravel to
replenish the beach.

The tombolo to Hood Head has a narrow, low berm that is overtopped at
tides approaching MHHW at a location approximately 200 m west of the
Hood Head uplands (Hansville quadrangle), immediately north-northeast
of the terminus of cell JE-10 (Port Ludlow quadrangle).  Tidal currents
pass over the berm when the water level is in the upper end of the
tidal cycle, forming a pebble and cobble washover fan (also analogous
to a flood tidal delta) on the southern side of the berm, and a thin
sand lobe on the beach on the northern side of the berm.  Sand on the
northern side of the berm has been drifted beyond the distal end of the
spit in cell JE-10 and over the top of the berm, perhaps at the
beginning of ebb tidal cycles.  The sand lobe is offset to the east
further than to the west (22 m west versus 45 m east) also indicating
eastward net shore-drift in cell JE-7.  The cell terminates at Point
Hannon, a narrow cuspate spit that extends more than 300 m from the
uplands, and is a zone of drift convergence in common with cell JE-8.
