Tacoma North, Vashon, Des Moines quads

This drift cell dominates the entire southeast shore of Maury Island towards a
drift cell terminus at Robinson Point.
The cell origin is at the southerly-facing shore between Rosehilla and
Piner Point. This zone of divergence is a mixed sand and gravel with a
scatter of boulders across the foreshore.  From south to north around
Piner Point the backshore widens, beach slope increases, and drift
obstructions indicate northerly net shore-drift.  Sediment fines to
sand, granule and pebble at the prograded beach at Summerhurst, where
two small streams are offset northwards.  At Shore Acres groins and a
series of oblique bars indicate northerly net shore-drift. Sediment
grading, sediment accumulation at obstructions to drift, oblique bars
and changes in beach slope all indicate continued northeasterly net
shore-drift through this segment.

At a large boulder groin in Section 28, accumulating sand and gravel 
on the southwest side has produced a 2-2.5 m vertical offset.
Immediately north of the groin significant erosion is occurring 
along an undefended filled bank.

Along the coastal stretch northeast through Section 22 a major
source of sediment for shore drift is likely related to active or
former sand and gravel mining operations.  Large lobate fills of sand
and gravel have been pushed across the foreshore to build staging areas
for transhipment. At the prograded beach just east of the 22-23
Section line, the intertidal depositional beach is hooked toward the
northeast by net shore-drift continuing around the beach.  The shore
just west of the change in shoreline orientation to Robinson Point
is bordered by a wave eroded bluff of till, generally a cobble-boulder
beach, and limited exposures of a till wave-cut platform.  This zone of
high wave-energy reflects the open-water fetch towards the southwest.
The prograding beach at Robinson Point is partly in the wave shadow of
the till bluff. Beach slope increases from southwest towards the point.
Sediment fines along the depositional beach to sand, granule and pebble
near the point.  Robinson Point is the drift cell terminus, with
considerable reworking of sediment around the point depending on
northerly or southerly wave approach.
