Duwamish, Vashon, Des Moines quads

This drift cell (the longest in King County) originates along a
section of the coast at section 24, about 1 km north of Secoma Beach
and immediately south of Seahurst County Park.  This zone of drift
divergence includes an exposed clay wave-cut platform at the upper
foreshore with a cobble-pebble veneer.  Towards the north
upper-foreshore sediments fine to pebble and sand before reaching the
large stream central to Seahurst Park. There is a prominent northward
offset of the stream mouth, estimated to be 40 to 50 meters.  North and
west to Brace Point sediment accumulation on the
south side of groins, boat ramps and bulkhead offsets continually indicates 
northward net shore-drift.

Net shore-drift continues north around Brace Point resulting in
sediment grading from mixed sand and gravel at the point to a medium
sand with granule along inner Fauntleroy Cove.  There are also several
groins or boat ramps crossing the foreshore on the north side of Brace
Point consistently accumulating sediment on the southwest side.  In
Fauntleroy Cove the ferry landing corresponds to a major offset of the
beach in plan view and in vertical profile, accumulating sand with
granule and pebble on the south side.  The mouth of a small stream near
the ferry landing is also deflected towards the north.  Williams Point,
like Brace Point, has net shore-drift continuing northward around this
coastal promontory. Neither of these points are a terminus of net drift.
At Williams Point a foreshore cobble-pebble armor grades northeast to a
mixed pebble, granule, and sand.  The first residential structure north
of Williams Point has a major bulkhead offset and beach sediment
deposition against the south side.  Various obstructions to drift from
Lowman Beach Park northward all indicate continued northward net
shore-drift.

The large rectangular structure southeast of Alki Point is an apartment
complex supported on pilings, and though not an absolute barrier to
shore drift, the pilings inhibit the northward drift and accumulate
sand gravel on the south side, producing a higher beach profile.
Sediment reaching the south shore of Alki Point is transported west and
north around the point.  The substantial wave energy reaching this
south shore is indicated by the broad sandstone and mudstone wave-cut
platform which comprises the foreshore along the south side of Alki
Point.  Sediment on the northwest side of the point is a
cobble and pebble armor to poorly sorted sand and gravel.  Mean sediment
size decreases towards the northeast to moderately sorted sand, granule,
and pebble along the bathing beach at Alki Park.  Groins andbulkhead
offsets along the north shore of Alki Point also indicate a net
shore-drift in a northeasterly direction.  Drift continues northward to
Duwamish Head and is evidenced by an accumulation of well sorted coarse
to medium sand on the west side of an observation promenade at the
headland.  Sand is transported eastward around Duwamish Head and is
presently building an intertidal sand beach immediately north of Nest
Side Park.  Location of this drift terminus generally
corresponds to a large prograded beach that existed at this site prior
to modification of the coastal area (U.S. Coast Survey, 1854, Survey
H-432, scale 1:10,000).  A small volume of sediment possibly bypasses
the boat ramp facility at West Side Park and is lost into deep water
or accumulates to the south where several sand beaches are located at
small embayments along the riprapped shore.  South of the Beach
Broiler Restaurant (1936 Harbor Avenue) there is no appreciable net
shore-drift.
