Poverty Bay, Tacoma North quads

The King County mainland coast south of the drift
divergence near Saltwater State Park has southerly net shore-drift due
to limited fetch towards the southwest and a shoreline orientation
giving preference to northerly waves.  The drift divergence
is a zone of active wave-induced bluff erosion and an exposed clay
wave-cut platform on the upper foreshore with a veneer of pebble and
cobble.  Towards the south sediment size decreases, a backshore
develops and widens, and groins along Woodmont Beach trap sediment on
the north side.  At Redondo Beach a group of shoreline structures
supported on pilings have restricted net shore-drift, developing a
berm, backshore and broader intertidal zone on the north side. At the
south end of Redondo Beach a large stream is deflected southwest across
its intertidal fan, and the fan has shore drift deposition on the
northeast. The shore below the steep bluffs at Buenna is a
mid-drift-cell erosional zone with a boulder and cobble lag and exposed
till wave-cut platform.  Net shore-drift crosses this zone and continues
southwest.

Though net shore-drift at Adelaide is towards
the southwest, the influence of strong storms from the southwest is
apparent with backshore sediments at Adelaide reversely graded; having
sand and pebble at the southwest, sand at the northeast.  Net
shore-drift continues to Lakota where bulkhead offsets and a boat ramp
have an accumulation of sand and gravel on the east side.  The beach
slope at Lakota increases towards the southwest, and at the change in
shoreline aspect into Dumas Bay mixed sand and gravel is accumulated on
the north side of boulders below the residential bulkheads. The stream
entering the east side of the bay is deflected towards the south by a
sand and gravel bar, and two additional small streams along the
southeast shore of the bay are also deflected in this direction.  Upper
foreshore sediment along the bay continues to fine towards the southwest.
The terminus of the drift cell is an elongate prograded beach of coarse
sand (with granule and pebble) along the south shore at the southwest
corner of Dumas bay.


