This is the northernmost segment and terminus of a drift cell
originating 2.5 km south of Olympic View (see Map KS-5, Segment 5-1).
The net shore-drift is to the east along Teekalet Bluff terminating
against the stone bulkhead protecting the Pope and Talbot sawmill
operation which has built much of its facility out over the existing
beach.  The drift direction of this segment is indicated by a stream
diversion 20 meters to the east, about 0.5 km west of the stone
bulkhead, an increase in beach width to the east, and a decrease in
mean sediment size to the east.

The coastal segment displayed on Map KS-3 represents the northern major
portion of a drift cell originating in a zone of drift divergence
located about 2.5 km south of Olympic View (see Map KS-5, Segment 5-1)
and ends against the riprap bulk-head of the Pope and Talbot sawmill
(see Map KS-2, Seg-ment 2-5).  Net shore-drift to the north is
indicated by a limited number of groins and other drift obstructions
with sediment accumulated on the south side, three stream diversions to
the north, and a northward decrease in sediment size.



The coastal segment shown on Map KS-4 repre-sents the southern major
portion of a drift cell with a northward net shore-drift originating
about 2.5 km south of Olympic View (see Map KS-5, Segment 5-1) and
terminating at the bulkhead at the Pope and Talbot sawmill (see Map
KS-2, Segment 2-5).  The drift direction is indicated by numerous
groins, boat ramps, and other drift obstructions which have a sediment
accumulation on the south, a 10-meter stream diversion to the north at
Olympic View, decreasing beach sediment size to the north, and a
northward increase in beach width.  A previ-ous study contends that the
four headlands (begin-ning with King Spit and ending in Section 18)
represent points of drift conver-gence.  Based on the observed
geomorphic indicators utilized in this study, we did not find this to
be true. This conclusion is based on the following observations: (1)
the asymmetry of the landforms observed in the field, (2) the
consistent de-crease in sediment size from the south side of these
fea-tures to the norht, (3) several of the features display upland 
eleveation greater than those that can be attributed to a coastal
accumulation landform, and (4) the presence of drift obstructions
on the north side of several of the features showing sediment 
accumulation on the south side.  These four features are, essentially, 
glacial headlands fronted by beaches



Beginning in a broad zone of divergence centered about 2.5 km south of
Olympic View, this segment has a north-erly net shore-drift as
indicat-ed by groins and other drift obstruc-tions with sediment
accumulation consis-tently on the south side.  There are also several
stream mouths which have been deflected to the north.
