Squaxin Island quad

Net shore-drift along the west side of this portion of Hartstene
Island is northward, originating at Brisco Point and terminating at a
small spit at a stream mouth in central Section 15.  
Brisco Point is a wave-cut platform fronted by a vertical, non-vegetated 
bluff. Indicating northward drift, the bluff becomes vegetated a short
distance to the north, the beach width and the slope of the beach
increase northward, sediment size decreases to the north, and a spit,
enclosing a lagoon, is oriented northward.  Net shore-drift continues
northward from this spit which is only 0.5 km from the origin of the
sector.  North from the spit, the beach again widens, slope increases,
sediment size decreases, and a series of more than thirty oblique bars
indicate northward net shore-drift.  Along Section 36, the bluffs are
steep and rapidly eroding.  In northwest Section 36, a pebble beach
ridge develops, protecting the bluffs which become more gently sloped
and vegetated.  The beach ridge extends northward 2.5 km and consists 
of fairly well sorted pebbles throughout most of its length. The beach 
ridge terminates in the north end of section 25 in a spit-like manner, 
prograding northward with a narrow marsh behind it. However, net 
shore-drift continues to the north. Continuing northwesterly net
shore-drift is indicated by several small spits which divert streams
north-westward, by oblique bars oriented toward the northwest, by
sediment accumulated to the southeast of obstacles, and by erosion
north of bulkheads.  In addition, north-westward from beyond the
terminus of each small spit to the terminus of the next, sediment-size
decreases and the beach width and slope increase.  This sector
essentially terminates with a small spit at the mouth of a stream in
central Section 15, although there may be bypassing under storm
conditions.  In addition, some sediment becomes trapped in each of
several small coves and stream mouths along this sector; however, not
until the designated terminus is there any evidence of a short reversal
of drift back into the coves from the northwest.
