Lilliwaup quad

This drift cell originates at a divergence zone at Ayres Point (indicated
on some maps as Bald Point) and terminates 10 km to the north at Dewatto Bay.  
Indicators of net shore-drift in a northerly direction are accumulations of 
sediment south of numerous groins and bulkheads (Section 19), erosion north of
some of the groins and bulkheads, and widening of the beach and
decrease of sediment size to the north as far as the Rendsland Creek
delta area (Section 19).  Some sediment is transported into this cove
at high tide, but because of the delta a much wider beach face is
exposed most of the time and net shore-drift continues northward.
North of Musqueti Point, drift is to the northeast.  There are a few
bulkheads and logs with sediment accumulations to the southwest of
them. Cougar Spit and the small point north of it (Section 7) are
looped bars, with land connections at both ends and a low, marshy area
enclosed within. Sediment size along these bars decreases from south 
to north. 
At Red Bluff there is a small stream delta which acts as an obstacle 
to drift and sediment has accumulated south of it.  The cove in northern 
Section 32 traps some sediment at high tide, but net shore-drift appears 
to continue northeast as a small berm begins to develop immediately north of the
cove. 
In the northernmost stretch of this cell, a small berm (which is
not present farther south), has developed up to where the shoreline
curves eastward into Dewatto Bay and to where riprap and fill are placed on
the upper foreshore for a road and a few houses.  There are slight
accumulations of sediment southwest of bulkheads indicating drift into
the outer part of the bay, but beyond, where the terminus is indicated,
drift features are obscured by development and there is no obvious
evidence for drift into the bay on this side.  The tiny westward
protuberance of land at the end of this drift segment is actually an 
intertidal feature and is submerged at high tide. It appears to be artificial.
