Eastsound quad

This cell has its origin along the south side of the base of Point Doughty, and extends to the south and southweat for 2.7 km to the settlement of Beach Haven.  Net shore-drift is generally southward, the opposite direction to net shore-drift in the adjoining cell to the south.  This is due to the more northerly location of this cell in relation to Waldron Island.  This cell is north of the narrowest stretch of President Channel, where fetch to the northwest is unimpeded and deep water offshore allows storm waves to reach the shore undiminished.  The origin of the cell has a broad wave-cut platform with very little sediment.  The sediment that is present consists primarily of boulders and cobbles.  A minimal amount of sediment is derived from the eroding seacliffs here, but the primary sediment source for the cell is located from 0.5 to 1.3 km south of the cell's origin, in the vicinity of Camp Orkila, where glacial till occurs.  Beach width increases and sediment size decreases to the south to Camp Orkila, indicating southward net shore-drift.  Sediment fines to sand and pebble size by Camp  Orkila, but then becomes coarser further south to a rock prominence landward of Freeman Island.  Over the same sector, the volume of sediment in the beach increases to the south and southwest, due to the presence of pebble beach ridges extending to the rock prominence that is accumulating abundant sediment on its northeast side, indicating general southward net shore-drift is still occurring here.  The reverse sediment size gradation (becoming coarser in the direction of net shore-drift) that occurs southwest of Camp Orkila is due to winnowing sand out of the beach in this more exposed end of the beach, possibly during times of southerly winds.  Net shore-drift continues around the rocky prominence in very shallow water to the stretch of beach in front of Beach Haven.  A virtually identical pattern to that which occurs in the Camp Orkila vicinity occurs near Beach Haven.  A wave-cut terrace with little sediment is located north of Beach Haven, the beach then becomes wider with the input of glacial till material and sediment size decreases to the southwest for a distance, then sediment size increases and is present in larger volumes in the form of gravel beach ridges at the southwestern end of the beach.  The terminus of the cell is located at the northeastern side of the base of the unnamed point separating this cell from the adjoining cell to the south.