Eastsound quad

This drift cell has its origin at the northern side of the base of Point Doughty, with eastward net shore-drift to a depositional area located immediately east of the Brandt Landing marina.  This coastal sector has its greatest fetch from the northwest down the Georgia Strait, a distance of more than 100 km.  Point Doughty is a 30 meter high vertical seacliff devoid of a beach on the northern side.  The source of drift material is found in the area immediately east of Point Doughty, where a beach sits atop a wave-cut platform incised into steeply dipping sedimentary beds of the Nanaimo Formation.  The sediment source here is glacial outwash sand and gravel that is found overlying Nanaimo Formation rocks.  The presence of gravel beach ridges at the western end of the beach adjacent to Point Doughty and at the western end of North Beach on this primarily erosional stretch of coast indicates that seasonal westward shore drift takes place, probably in the winter months when continental winds from the Fraser River are the strongest.  Indicators of eastward net-shore drift in this cell are the presence of sediment accumulations against the west side of several rock outcrops in the intertidal zone and eastward decrease in predominant sediment size along each beach sector between rock outcrops.  Also, nearshore bars trending northeast-southwest were located at North Beach and north of the Orcas Island airport in 1977, further indicating eastward drift (see Ecology 1:6,000 scale oblique photos 6-6-77).  Some net shore-drift continues eastward across the mouth of the Brandt Landing marina.  This is a shallow harbor entrance between two jetties extending approximately 6 m out from the beach, located in an area with a shallow subtidal bottom.  Some drift sediment does not continue east of the Brandt Landing jetties.  This sediment accumulates against the western side of the western jetty.  Seasonal westward shore drift is also evidenced here by sediment accumulated against the east side of the base of the eastern of the two jetties.  The terminus of net shore-drift in this cell is at a gravel bar extending offshore that is approximately 120 m in length, located immediately east of the Brandt Landing marina.  The landward end of the bar is within 100 m of the eastern jetty of Brandt Landing.  The bar has been there for a minimum of 28 years, suggesting that it is the product of long term shore processes (WWU photos, 1963, and Ecology photo, 1977). The orientation of the bar is to the northeast.  The present intertidal gravel bar was a spit (above water at high tide) in 1963, prior to the construction of the marina and jetties (WWU photos,1963).  Presently, sediment in the bar consists of pebbles and cobbles, which is coarser than that of the surrounding beaches.  This suggests that the sand that was in the spit prior to the construction of the jetties has been winnowed out by wave action.  The jetties have caused a lesser amount of sediment to pass to the east, thus decreasing the amount of sediment replenishing the bar. 