San Juan	OR-7	

	Cell OR-7 is a 2.3-km-long net shore-drift cell  originating 0.5 km north of Coon Hollow that exhibits northwestward net shore-dr ift into Ship Bay, located at the head of East Sound.  Net shore-drift is limite d to a very small volume of sediment within the first 0.5 km of the cell, along  a narrow cobble and boulder beach.  As the shore of East Sound curves to the nor thwest, beach width increases rapidly and grades into finer gravel, indicating n orthwestward net shore-drift.  As the coast bends to the northwest, a large amou nt of sediment is introduced into the littoral system from eroding bluffs compos ed of glacial till.  A tide flat approximately 80-m-wide is present in front of  Crescent Beach, probably the largest accumulation of sediment found along the sh ore of Orcas Island, due to the large exposures of glacial till.  Nearshore bars  trend to the northwest, further indicating net shore-drift in that direction.   Beach width increases across Crescent Beach with the widest section located at t he western end, the terminus of drift cell OR-7.  This is also the only location  where a predominantly sandy high-tide beach is found within this sector, furthe r indicating that the terminus of this net shore-drift cell is located against t he base of Madrona Point.  Madrona Point is a rocky headland that is resistent t o erosion and does not contribute any appreciable amount of sediment to the shor e drift system from either its eastern or western side.  No appreciable net shor e-drift occurs at Madrona Point or in Fishing Bay, where there is a pocket beach  located in front of the town of Eastsound.  A stream supplies sediment to this  pocket beach.  Directly in front of this beach is a small, unnamed island that h as a spit extending from its northern side towards the north, indicating that no rthward net shore-drift is occurring on the island.  A second pocket beach is lo cated in the northwest corner of Fishing Bay, then a short stretch of rocky coas t with no appreciable net shore-drift is found before cell OR-8