This is the longest drift cell in Pierce County.  Beginning west of 
Taylor Bay, this cell extends along the shoreline for 11.25 km, and 
terminates at an eastwardly accreting sand lobe in the cove at Herron.  


Northerly net shore-drift is exhibited by a number of indicator along
this coastline.  An eroding sand bluff at Joemma Beach (now Robert F.
Kennedy State Park) provides beach material for a long sandy beach
extending north of the pier for 1 km.  At the end of this sand beach
there is a northward prograding spit fronting a lagoon which is drained
at the north end of the spit.  A spit prograded across the mouth of
Whiteman Cove has been modified at the north end.  Two large outlet
culverts on the seaward side of the barrier beach have sediment
accumulated on the south side and spilling over the obstruction onto
the north side.  Along the coastal stretch south of Whiteman Cove
sediment is built up on the south side of drift obstructions, and there
are several cusp-type sand and gravel bars with the seaward ends hooked
northward in the direction of net shore-drift.


A north, then east, net shore-drift is indicated by a decrease in mean 
sediment size,  sediment accumulated on the south side of drift 
obstructions, and several cusp-type sand and gravel bars with the 
seaward end hooked to the north.  

A modified point, 3 km south of the north boundary, has accumulated 
debris along the south side berm crest, and has a small northerly 
prograding spit at the north end.  This point is fronted by a series 
of oblique bars and has peat layers exposed on the south end, suggesting 
northward sediment migration and headland erosion.


Additional evidence of northerly drift include a slight northerly offset 
of the stream channel at Herron and the deposition of a sandy lobe against 
the west side of the bridge abutment crossing the east end of the cove.  
At times of spring low tide, sediment may pass by this cove and continue 
northward along the coast.



