False Bay, Richardson quads

This cell is located in the south-facing shore of San Juan Island near American Camp in the San Juan National Historic Park and has eastward net shore-drift for 4.0 km to Cattle Point.  Net shore-drift originates 0.8 km east of Eagle Cove (False Bay quadrangle), where glacial drift is present and rocky prominences become small enough to allow drift to pass to the east.  These objects partially interrupting net shore-drift have sediment accumulations of the west side, indicating eastward net shore-drift.  East of the first 1 km of the cell, a bluff consisting of glacial drift, primarily outwash sand and gravel, is present behind the beach.  The bluff reaches a maximum height of 80 m and provides a large volume of sand and gravel to the shore drift system.  The bluff face is predominently unvegetated, indicating the erosional nature of this coastal sector.  Continued eastward net shore-drift is indicated by eastward increase in beach width and decrease in sediment size to a point 0.5 km west of the Cattle Point lighthouse (Richardson quadrangle), where bedrock outcrops at the base of the bluff.  A large accumulation of sediment is located here on the western side of the rock outcrop partially interrupting drift, further indicating eastward net shore-drift.  The shore bends gently to the southeast at this location due to the more resistent nature of bedrock relative to glacial drift.  The change in shore orientation causes the final sector of this cell near Cattle Point to become more exposed to westerly wind waves, which in turn results in a narrower and coarser beach.  The exposure of this Cattle Point sector and the presence of very strong tidal currents cause net shore-drift sediment to be removed from the beach and deposited in the nearshore zone.  Salmon Bank, a shallow platform extending 3 km south-southwest of Cattle Point, receives much of the drift sediment from this cell. Predominant westerly winds acting over the open fetch of the Strait of Juan de Fuca are the cause of eastward net shore drift in this cell.
 
Note: Net shore-drift in this area was interpreted differently by Kueler (1988), who mapped a zone of drift divergene at southeastern Cattle Point with net shore-drift going to the north and west from Cattle Point.  No depositional area was indicated for the southern Cattle Point cell in the Kueler study, as Kueler's study area boundary is located 3.0 km west of Cattle Point. 