(Edmonds West, Edmond East and Mukilteo quads)

Cell SN-2 originates 300 m north of the Edmonds ferry terminal and has
generally northeastward net shore-drift for approximately 18 km to just
beyond Elliot Point in Mukilteo.  Net shore-drift in this cell is
driven by southerly and southwesterly waves, and goes in the same
general direction as in cell SN-1 and SN-3.

Northward net shore-drift in cell SN-3 is interrupted by the large
marina in Edmonds, separating it from cell SN-2.  This results in a
beach that consists of only lag deposits at the beginning of cell SN-2
(Edmonds West quadrangle).  A thin veneer of gravel sits atop a
wave-cut platform here, without a high-tide beach.  The narrow low-tide
beach abuts the fitted-stone seawall and is armored with boulders.
Sediment enters the littoral system within this cell from a number of
small streams, the first of which is located 1.0 km northeast of the
cell origin (Edmonds East quadrangle), where a narrow high tide beach
begins.

Moving along the cell to the northeast, indicators of northeastward net
shore-drift are northeastward stream delta offset seaward of Lunds
Gulch, sediment accumulation on the southwest side of an old barge
adjacent to the Norma Beach boathouse, nearshore bars trending
north-south that are moving northeastward within several minor
indentations in the coast located north and south of Norma Beach,
northeastward stream and delta offset, and sand accumulation on the
southwest side of the delta at Picnic Point (Mukilteo quadrangle),
sediment accumulation against the southwest side of an old groin and
barge located 1.4 km northeast of Picnic Point, northeastward stream
delta offset at a location 2.2 km northeast of Picnic Point and at the
Big Gulch outlet, and sediment accumulation on the southwest side of an
old pier just northeast of the Big Gulch outlet, at a seawall at
Nelsons Corner, and at a series of rock groins and a boat ramp in front
of Mukilteo State Park.

Near the cell terminus at Mukilteo, a wide gravel and sand beach has
prograded around Elliot Point (Mukilteo quadrangle), which has been
enlarged in the past by the addition of fill material.  Northeastward
beach width increase and sediment size decrease occur in cycles over
the length of the cell (trends are repeatedly interrupted by objects
partially interrupting net shore-drift), but reach maximums at Elliot
Point, further indicating northeastward net shore-drift.  The cluster
of docks and seawalls that surround the Mukilteo ferry terminal and the
change in shore orientation here diminish wave energy sufficiently to
terminate northeastward net shore-drift.  Net shore-drift sediment is
deposited along the 0.6-km-long zone east of Elliot Point, with the
cell terminus located roughly 100 m east of the state ferry dock.
