This drift cell originates at a rounded protrusion of the coast at section 24 
about 2.5 kilometers south of themouth of Boeing Creek.  North of this 
drift divergence the long term net shore-drift is towards the north to 
the King-Snohomish County line.  

Northward net shore-drift is indicated by decreasing mean
sediment size north of the drift divergence. About 1.6 km north of the
divergence a fall of riprap across the beach face has blocked northward
drift accumulating a large wedge of sand and gravel on the south facing
side.  A similar accumulation occurs on the south side of a boulder
groin just south of the mouth of Boeing Creek.  Though no distinctive
offset occurs at the mouth of Boeing Creek, small streams at the south
and north ends of Richmond Beach County Park are both deflected
north-wards, and there is also a pronounced increase in width of the
backshore from south to north along the park beach.  North of the park
a prograding beach occurs against the south face of a protruding
bulkhead supporting the series of waterfront residences along the small
headland at Richmond Beach.  At the north end of this headland an
intertidal spit is developed towards  the north. Northward drift
continues around this headland and across the King-Snohomish County line.
The ultimate terminus of this drift cell was not verified; however, a
northward offset of a stream at the northeast side of Point Wells
suggests that net drift continues around this point, and that the drift
cell terminus is possibly the large pro-graded beach against the south
breakwater of the moorage near Edwards Point, Snohomish County.



Generally northward net shore-drift crosses
the southern Snohomish County line and continues for approximately 3.5
km to the southwest end of the large marina in Edmonds.

Net shore drift passes around Point Wells, as indicated by the
northeastward offset of two streams discharging from the northern side
of Point Wells, and by the presence of nearshore bars oriented
north-south, moving northeastward, in the same area.  Northward net
shore-drift beyond Point Wells is indicated by an overall northward
sediment size decrease, sediment accumulation on the south side of the
base of a fuel pipeline dock at Edwards Point, and the large volume of
sediment and drift logs accumulated against the southwest side of the
rip-rap breakwater that extends more than 200 m seaward at the marina
in Edwards, which is the terminus of this cell.
