Point Roberts quad

This drift cell stretches from Lilly Point west to Lighthouse Point, then
curves up the western coast of Point Roberts to the Canadian Border.
The drift is to the west between Lilly Point and Lighthouse Point, and
to the north between Lighthouse Point and the Canadian Border.

The beach widens to the west from Lilly Point, where there is an obvious
erosional platform.  The bluffs backing the beach become more vegetated
and less steep to the west.  At a series of very small groins
positioned seaward of the first house east of the Point Roberts Marina
jetty, sand is usually accumulated on the east sides of the groins, but
at times there is some sediment accumulated on the west sides of the
groins.  At the entrance to the Point Roberts Marina, a small riprap
groin has been built between the east jetty and southern riprap wing.
This is visible only at extremely low tides. Sand has accumulated on
the east side to the top of the groin.  On the west, there is a drop
into deep water.   A fan of sand has been built down from this groin to
the west.  Sand is most common east of the east jetty, while an eroding
beach, which will eventually endanger nearby homes, is exposing a peat
deposit west of the west jetty.  A lobe of sand is built over cobbles
to the west around the west jetty.

Just east of Lighthouse Point, a stretch of beach with a concave
erosional profile can be observed, while to the north of the point,
flatter or more convex profiles are found.  Lighthouse Point itself
appears to be an accre-tion-ary point being presently built around to
the north.  At a large groin built to the north of the State Park boat
ramp, behind The Cannery tavern, accumulation can be seen on its south
side and erosion on its north side, which has resulted in a noticeable
beach offset.  About 0.8 kilometers south of the Canadian border, there
is a small accretionary beach. The end of this drift cell is at the
Tsawwassen Ferry jetty, which is north of the Canadian boundary, and
out of the study area.  But, it should be noted that there is a large
accumulation of sand and gravel on the south side of the jetty.  In
fact, the size of the coarsest sediment fraction fines from Lilly point
west and north to Boundary Bluff.

Greatest fetch is 48 kilometers to the southeast for the southern coast
and about 19 kilometers to the south and southeast for the western
coast.  Although the Strait of Georgia extends 145 kilometers to the
north-west, the effective fetch for the west coast of Point Roberts has
been sharply reduced by the Tsawwassen Ferry jetty and Robert Bank
jetty.