Lummi Bay, Birch Point

This drift cell runs from Point Whitehorn to the entrance channel of the
Sandy Point Marina.  Net shore drift is in a southerly direction.

The 145 kilometer fetch along the Strait of Georgia and north-west
winds cause predominant waves to hit this drift cell of the coast from the
northwest.  Beach sediment generally grades from coarse cobbles at
Point Whitehorn to mixed sand and gravel at Sandy Point, with some
local reversals. Although the Arco Refinery pier, completed in 1971,
appears to have no effect on drift because it crosses the foreshore on
pilings; both the Intalco Aluminum plant pier, built in 1966, and the
Mobil Oil Refinery pier, completed in 1954, act as partial barriers to
net shore drift.  At these latter two sites, large, riprap and bulkhead
platforms, respectively, built over the entire foreshore effectively
stop the movement of the coarse sediment fraction.  Sand, however, has
been observed moving around the barriers. This impediment to sediment
transport has caused a noticeable accumulation of sediment on the north
sides and erosion on the south sides of both the Intalco and Mobil
piers.

South of the Arco Refinery, in the Gulf Road area, parallel beach berms
making up an accretion beach can be seen.  A 1947 aerial photograph
clearly shows that a relict beach ridge recurves shoreward at its
southern end.  The only way that a landform shaped like this could be
built-is by a net shore drift to the south.  Unfortunately, from the
viewpoint of this study, the recurved end of the ridge was destroyed in
the early 1950's when it was leveled to allow for the construc-tion of
a restaurant.  Some years later, a small fish packing operation was
active in the area, as evidenced by the remains of a conveyor system
built across the foreshore.  None of this seems to have affected the
remaining relict beach ridges west of Gulf Road.  Just north of the
parallel ridges, a stream has been diverted from its original northern
channel to a newer southern channel.  The original northerly channel is
still visible.

Just north of this drift cell is Birch Bay, a log-spiral beach, 
which is oriented so that it indicates a counterclockwise drift.  
Point Whitehorn is just south of Birch Bay.
At Point Whitehorn, the shore is mainly an erosional platform, with
only a narrow, very thin veneer of sediment, comprising a low-tide
beach, as would be expected at the start of a drift cell.  Just
northeast of the apex of Point Whitehorn, in Birch Bay, the nearshore
consists of barnacle-covered boulders, making it appear unlikely that
large amounts of sediment enter from the north.  The
southern end of this cell is a large spit built southward, also
indicating southerly drift.

The construction of the Sandy Point Marina at this spit required the
dredging of an entrance channel.  At present, this channel is filling
up so that it now has a depth of only 1.3 meters at lowest water during
spring tides.  Since the dredging of this inlet, the southern end of
the spit has been undergoing rapid erosion.  The southernmost beach,
being starved of sediment, is now composed of cobbles, as the finer
sediment has been washed away and not replaced.  At present, several
homes are threatened by this shore erosion.

Along the length of the Drift cell 8 coast there is a general trend
toward increasing vegetation on the bluffs and the decreasing bluff
slope to the south, although increasing erosion of the bluff is evident
just south of the Mobil pier, where there is no longer a beach
present.

Processes affecting shore drift in this cell are dominated by the
large northwest fetch of the Strait of Georgia.

